SQS

Oldest AWS Service
Gives you access to message queue that can be used to store messages while waiting for computers to process them
Distributed queue system that enables web service application to quickly & reliably queue message that on 
component in app generates to be consumed by another component.

queue is a temporary repository for message that are awaitinig processing.

Eg Meme website

If you loose Ec2 instnance, messages will remain overthere not going to loose, another EC2 instance will pick up that

Eg Travel Website
If application server crashes, message still remain in queue, marked as invisble, for Timeout window, after it outs, 
message will come again & anthoer app will pick up that job (2 times a message)


Advanatages

1) decoupling component of application to run independently.
2) Any component of distributed app can store message in fail safe queue.


 Message can contain upto 256 KB text in any format
queue act as buffer between component producing & saving data, & component receiving data for processing
queue resolves issue that arise in the producer is producing work faster than consumer can process it, 
or if producer/consumer are only intermittntly connected to the network


Types of Queue

1) Standard Queue

unlimited transactions per second
gurantess message is delived atleast once 
however because of of highly available applications expecting high throughput same message might get 
deliverd twice

provide best effort ordering which ensures message are geerally delivered in same-way as they sent.


2) FIFO

Complemets Standard queue
most important feture is FIFO exactly once processing
order is preserved for sent and recived unless consumer process and delte it.
No duplications
supports message groups that allow multiple ordered message groups witihn a single queue 
limited to 300 transactions per second (TPS)
but have all capabilities of Standard one


Key facts

1) Pull based not push based
2) Message is of 256 KB in size (json,xml,txt)
3) Messages can be kept in queeue from 1 min to 14 days
deafult 4 days
4)Visiblity Time out (same message twice) amount of time message is invisible in SQS queus after reader 
picks up that message. Provided job is processed before visibilty time out expires, message will then
be deleted from queue.
If job is not processed within time, message will be visible again & another reader process.
5) Visibilty Time out is max of 12 hrs
6) Gurantess that your message will be processed atleast once.

Types of Polling

A] Long Polling (1-20 seconds)
Allows SQS service to wait untill a message is available in a queue before sending a response, and will return 
all messages from all SQS services.
Long polling reduces API requests (over using short polling)

B] Short polling
SQS samples a subset of servers and returns message from just those servers
will not return all possible messages in a poll
Increase API requests (over long polling), which increase costs.



